---
layout: post
title:  "Thinking and Feeling"
date:   2022-10-02
categories: writing
published: true
---

What is thinking? What is feeling? Can we divide the two as if they are fundamentally different things? Are they individual entities that occasionally interact, or are they just flip sides of the same coin? I always had these questions in my head, because I always _felt_ like it is unture to segregate the two. I always thought that great thoughts came from strong affects, like it did for Friedrich Nietzsche and Gilles Deleuze. But I couldn't just let my hunch guide my thoughts. Hence I did some research.

# Definition of Thought and Emotion

According to several dictionaries, “thought” and "think" signify following things.
* Oxford Languaes
    1. have a particular opinion, belief, or idea about someone or something.
        ex. She thought that nothing would be the same again.   
    2. direct one’s mind toward someone or something; use one’s mind actively to form connected ideas.
        ex. He was thinking about Colin.
* Wikipedia
    <br>“In their most common sense, the terms thought and thinking refer to **conscious cognitive processes** that can happen independently of sensory stimulation. Their most paradigmatic forms are judging, reasoning, concept formation, problem solving, and deliberation. But other mental processes, like considering an idea, memory, or imagination, are also often included. These processes can happen internally independent of the sensory organs, unlike perception. But when understood in the widest sense, **any mental event** may be understood as a form of thinking, including perception and unconscious mental processes.”

On the other hand, "emotion" signifies following things.
* Oxford Languaes
    1. a natural instinctive state of mind deriving from one's circumstances, mood, or relationships with others.
        ex. She was attempting to control her emotions.
    2. instinctive or intuitive feeling as distinguished from reasoning or knowledge.
        ex. Responses have to be based on historical insight, not simply on emotion.
* Wikipedia
    <br>"Emotions are **mental states** brought on by neurophysiological changes, variously associated with thoughts, feelings, behavioural responses, and a degree of pleasure or displeasure. There is currently no scientific consensus on a definition. Emotions are often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, or creativity. (...) From a mechanistic perspective, emotions can be defined as "**a positive or negative experience that is associated with a particular pattern of physiological activity**." Emotions produce different physiological, behavioral and cognitive changes. The original role of emotions was to motivate adaptive behaviors that in the past would have contributed to the passing on of genes through survival, reproduction, and kin selection."

We can observe that thought is used as a border term that encompasses opinion, belief, or idea, and that it also entails the concept of consciousness -- thought is thought of as "conscious cognitive processes" that is independent of sensory simulation. 

On the other hand, emotion is often confined to an "instinctive state" that is derived by environment, and is correlated with the physical changes in the body -- the origin of which was to motivate "survival, reproduction, and kin selection."

In a way, thought seems to carry on the idea of cogito, coming from Descartes. Cogito is the "I" that is independent of everything, and the notion is found upon the substance dualism. 

Emotion seems to suffer the dualism too. As thought took the place of the mental, emotion took the place of the physical. But we know well that some emotions are highly mental, and can happen independently of sensory stimulation.

# Components of Thought and Emotion

Components of thought are said to include, and are not confined to: attention, pattern recogntion, memory, decision making, _intuition_, knowledge, and so on.

Meanwhile, in philosophy and affective science, it is widely believed “that emotions have components, and that such components are jointly instantiated in prototypical episodes of emotions.” The components usually include: evaluative component, physiological component, phenomenological component, expressive component, behavioral component, and mental component.

# References
[Wikipedia: Thought](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thought)
<br>[Wikipedia: Emotion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emotion)
<br>[Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Emotion](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/emotion/)

<!-- %enddocs -->

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

