---
layout: post
title:  "From Big Bang to Life"
date:   2022-09-27
categories: writing
published: true
---

* The question I want to address is this. If the universe is a giant machine operating on simple rules, how did the machine, by chance and design, give birth to life? Or, is life part of that machine? What are the deep rules that govern all the phenomena?

  &#8734;

* In the beginning, there was the initial singularity* -- a hot, dense state that contained all the energy and spacetime** of the Universe. 
  
  At least that's what some models of the Big Bang theory predicts to have existed before the Big Bang.
  
  <small>*Unlike energy that can be tranformed into matter, spacetime is not a physical object, but a mathematical model. (This does not mean it is not _real_.) It is a four-dimensional manifold that has the three dimensions of space and one dimension of time. It’s essentially a differentiable manifold with a pseudo-Riemannian metric.</small>
  
  <small>**Usually, singularity refers to a condition where gravity is so strong that spacetime breaks down. (However, note that singularity is still poorly-defined, even according to the current best theory of gravity, the theory of general relativity.) 
  <br>General relativity predicts that any object that goes through gravitational collapse beyond a certain point, forms a black hole inside which singularity is formed. 
  <br>However, initial singularity did not collapse into a black hole, because the spacetime was rapidly expanding. 
  (Currently-known density limits for gravitational collapse are based on objects of relatively constant size in time.)</small>

# The First 20 Minutes

* Then an _event*_ happended that triggered the expansion of our initial singularity. Big Bang! 
* Immediately after the bang followed the **Plank epoch** (0s ~ 10<sup>-43</sup>s). 
* Back then, the gravitational force and the unified force (electromagnetic force, weak force, strong force) were all one.
* As our baby universe expands, it cools.

  <small>*It is all a conjecture, but the appearance of WIMPS(Weakly Interacting Massive Particles) or dark matter & dark energy could have triggered the expansion of the initial singularity.</small> 
<br/><br/>
* In the **grand unification epoch** (10<sup>-43</sup>s ~ 10<sup>-36</sup>s), the universe cools down to 10<sup>29</sup> kelvin. 
* The graviational force gets seperated from the unified force, and begins operating on the universe. 
* The unified force without the gravitational force gets stabilized into the electronuclear force. This is also called the grand unified force -- the name of the epoch.
* X and Y bosons (hypothetical elementary particles similar to the W and Z bosons) mediate the grand unified force, and this allows early matter to fluctuate between baryon and lepton states.
<br/><br/>
* At the end of the grand unification epoch, the strong force gets seperated from the grand unified force.
* It is conjectured that some part of this decay process violated the conservation of baryon number and gave rise to a small excess of matter over antimatter. This is called **baryogenesis**.
* This phase transition is thought to have triggered cosmic inflation that dominated the development of the universe during the following epoch.
<br/><br/>
* Now the **electroweak epoch** (10<sup>-36</sup>s ~ 10<sup>-12</sup>s), also called **inflationary epoch**. 
* At 10<sup>-36</sup>s: The universe cools down to 10<sup>28</sup> kelvin.
* As a result, the strong nuclear force gets seperated from the grand unified force, the rest forging into the electroweak force. (This may have fuelled the inflation of the universe.)
* As X and Y bosons decay, the elementary particles -- W and Z bosons, Higgs bosons are born.  
* At 10<sup>-33</sup>s ~ 10<sup>-32</sup>s: Inflation. Space expands by a factor of 10<sup>26</sup>. The universe supercools down to 10<sup>22</sup> kelvin.
* At 10<sup>-32</sup>s: Inflation ends. The familiar elementary paricles now form as a soup of hot ionized gas called quark-gluon plasma. 
<br/><br/>
* Phase trasition (10<sup>-12</sup>s): The forces are sepearated into the four fundamental interactions that we have now. As the weak nuclear force and electromagnetic force are separted, weak nuclear force now works at short-range, so matter particles can acquire mass and interact with the Higgs Field. The universe cools to 10<sup>15</sup> kelvin.
<br/><br/>
* Then the **quark epoch**. (10<sup>-12</sup>s ~ 10<sup>-5</sup>s).
* The four fundamental forces are now operating, but it is still to hot for quarks to unify into hadrons. Quark-gluon plasma exists. The universe coold down to 10<sup>15</sup> kelvin.
* At 10<sup>-11</sup>s: **Baryogenesis** could have happened here.
<br/><br/>
* Then the **hadron epoch**, the **lepton epoch**, the **photon epoch** take place (10<sup>-5</sup>s ~ 20min).
* As the universe cools down to 4000 kelvin: 
  * Quarks are bound into hadrons, protons and neutrons. 
  * Hadrons and antihadrons annihilate each other and leave behind leptons and antileptons.
  * Leptons and antileptons annihilate eache other. Electrons and positrons annihilate each other and leave behind some unmatched electrons.
  * Protons and neutrons are bound into primordial atomic nuclei (nucleosynthesis) which are hydrogen and helium-4, and 
  * Eventually the plasma of nuclei, electrons and photons are left to existence.
* Now 20 minutes have passed since big bang. Nuclear fusion stops happening, and normal matter are now comprised of 75% hydrogen nuclei and 25% helium nuclei. Free electrons begin scattering light. 

# Matter era (1800yrs ~ 9.13 billion yrs)
* 47,000 yrs: Matter and radiation become equivalent.
* 70,000 yrs: As the Jeasns length* drops, matter prevails in the universe. 

  <small>*The length at which the smallest structure can form.</small>

## Cosmic Dark Age
* 370,000 yrs: Electrons and protons first become bound to form electrically neutral hydrogen atoms.
* 200-300 million yrs: First stars begin to shine. 
* 400 million yrs: The oldest-known galaxy GN-z11 forms.
* 5 billion years: The thin disk of milky way began to form.

# Epochs of the formation of the Solar System
* 9.2 billion years: Triggered by primal supernova, the solar system forms.
* 9.2318 billion years: Sun forms.
* 9.257 billion years: Earth starts evolving around the sun.
* 10.4 billion years: The earlies traces of **life** on Earth emerges.
  * The natural process of life arising from non-living matter is called **abiogenesis**.
<br/><br/>
* Now, it's 13.8 billion years from big bang.

# References
[Wikipedia: Timeline of the early universe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_the_early_universe)
<br>[Wikipedia: Chronology of the universe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_the_universe)
<br>[Wikipedia: Abiogenesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiogenesis)

<!-- %enddocs -->

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
