---
layout: post
title:  "Rethinking the Question ‘Can Machines Think?’"
date:   2022-10-05
categories: writing
published: true
---
# Table of Contents
1. Introduction
2. What is a machine?
3. What is thinking?
4. Can machines think?

# 1. Introduction
* Can machines think? Or should we ask, how can we answer the question, ‘can machines think?’
* The following is the first paragraph of Alan Turing’s canonical paper <I.—Computing Machinery and Intelligence>(1950), that addressed the very question.

  ><small>I PROPOSE to consider the question, ‘**Can machines think?**’ This should begin with definitions of the meaning of the terms ‘machine’ and ‘think’. The definitions might be framed so as to reflect so far as possible the normal use of the words, but this attitude is dangerous. If the meaning of the words ‘machine’ and ‘think’ are to be found by examining how they are commonly used it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the meaning and the answer to the question, ‘Can machines think?’ is to be sought in a statistical survey such as a Gallup poll. But this is absurd. Instead of attempting such a definition I shall replace the question by another, which is closely related to it and is expressed in relatively unambiguous words.</small>

* I have summarized the paragraph as following. 
* Q stands for question, A for answer, and P for proposition. "Qn+1 for Qn" means that Qn+1 is a question asked to answer Qn.  

Q1. Can machines think?
<br>Q2 for Q1. What is the definitions of the meaning of the terms 'machine' and 'think'?
    <br><small>* Behhind Logic: In order to answer a question, one has to define the meaning of the terms it contains. (Principle of Compostionality)</small>
<br>Q3 for Q2. How should one define the meaning of the terms 'machine' and 'think?'
<br>A3. It is is nonsensical to define the meaning of the terms by how they are commonly used, as in a statistical survey.
<br>P1. Let's replace the question 'Can machines think?' with a game.
<br/><br/>
I think that A3 is debatable. In fact, the current paradigm in machine learning is based on the conjecture that intelligent beings learn new things by statistics. Just like Turing, let's rethink the question 'Can machines think' by defining the meaning of the terms it contains. And unlike Turing who turned to a thought experiment in place of definitions, I will attempt to define the meaning of the words.

# 2. What is a "machine"?
These are many definitions of "machine".
* Wikipedia: 
  * “A machine is a **physical system** using power to apply forces and control movement to perform an action. The term is commonly applied to artificial devices, such as those employing engines or motors, but also to natural biological macromolecules, such as molecular machines."
  * “The elementary mechanical components of a machine are termed machine elements. These elements consist of three basic types (i) **structural components** (…) (ii) **mechanisms that control movement in various ways** (…) (iii) **control components**.”
* Franx Reuleaux, 1876 _The Kinematics of Machinery_ Archived 2013-06-02 at the Wayback Machine (trans. and annotated by A. B. W. Kennedy), reprinted by Dover, New York (1963)
  * "A machine is a combination of resistant bodies so arranged that by their means the mechanical forces of nature can be compelled to do work accompanied by certain determinate motion.”
* J. J. Uicker, G. R. Pennock, and J. E. Shigley, 2003, _Theory of Machines and Mechanisms_, Oxford University Press, New York. 
  * “[A machine is] a device for applying power or changing its direction.”
* J. M. McCarthy and G. S. Soh, 2010, _Geometric Design of Linkages_, Archived 2016-08-19 at the Wayback Machine Springer, New York.
  * "[A machine] generally consists of a power source and a mechanism for the controlled use of this power." 

Based on many definitions I have read, I would like to redefine "machine" as: any physical system that has mechanisms that transform the fundamental forces of nature to action that exerts power, in order to achieve something." 

# 3. What is "thinking"?
Let's bring back the definition of "think" and "thought" from the previous article.
<br>According to Oxford Languaes, think means:
    <br>1. have a particular opinion, belief, or idea about someone or something.
    <br>2. direct one’s mind toward someone or something; use one’s mind actively to form connected ideas.
<br>Wikipedia says that thought is:
    <br>“In their most common sense, the terms thought and thinking refer to **conscious cognitive processes** that can happen independently of sensory stimulation. Their most paradigmatic forms are judging, reasoning, concept formation, problem solving, and deliberation. But other mental processes, like considering an idea, memory, or imagination, are also often included. These processes can happen internally independent of the sensory organs, unlike perception. But when understood in the widest sense, **any mental event** may be understood as a form of thinking, including perception and unconscious mental processes.”
    
We can observe that thought is used as a border term that encompasses opinion, belief, or idea, and that it also entails the concept of consciousness – thought is thought of as “conscious cognitive processes” that is independent of sensory simulation.

However, I think a lot of cognitive processes could be considered as _unconscious_, as we do not know exactly how we see things, and we are sometimes unconscious of the things that we see. For instance, bottom-up attention can be activated when we sleepwalk. 

Hence, for now, I will define "think" as: conscious or unconscious cognitive processes that is independent of sensory stimulation.

# 4. Can machines think?
Now we are able to change the question into the following: 
<br>Can any physical system that has mechanisms that transform the fundamental forces of nature to action that exerts power, in order to achieve something, able to enact conscious or unconscious cognitive processes that is independent of sensory stimulation?
<br>If you think human beings are biological machines, than the answer is undoubtably yes. 
<br>If you think human beings cannot be reduced down to a physical system that has rules that transform forces to powerful action, than the answer would be no. 
<br> What's youre verdict?

# References
[I.--Computing Machinery and Intelligence](https://academic.oup.com/mind/article/LIX/236/433/986238)
<br>[Wikipedia: Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine)
<br>[Wikipedia: Thought](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thought)

<!-- %enddocs -->

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
