---
layout: post
title:  "Rethinking the Question ‘Can Machines Think?’"
date:   2022-10-11
categories: writing
published: true
---
# Table of Contents
1. Introduction
2. What is a machine?
3. What is thinking?
4. Can machines think?

# 1. Introduction
* How should we reply to the question, ‘can machines think?’
* The following is the first paragraph of Alan Turing’s canonical paper <I.—Computing Machinery and Intelligence>(1950), that contains the very question.

><small>I PROPOSE to consider the question, ‘Can machines think?’ This should begin with definitions of the meaning of the terms ‘machine’ and ‘think’. The definitions might be framed so as to reflect so far as possible the normal use of the words, but this attitude is dangerous. If the meaning of the words ‘machine’ and ‘think’ are to be found by examining how they are commonly used it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the meaning and the answer to the question, ‘Can machines think?’ is to be sought in a statistical survey such as a Gallup poll. But this is absurd. Instead of attempting such a definition I shall replace the question by another, which is closely related to it and is expressed in relatively unambiguous words.</small>

I have summarized the paragraph as following. Q stands for question, A for answer, and P for proposition. "Qn+1 for Qn" means that Qn+1 is a question asked to answer Qn.  

Q1. Can machines think?
<br>Q2 for Q1. What is the definitions of the meaning of the terms 'machine' and 'think'?
    <br><small>* Behhind Logic: In order to answer a question, one has to define the meaning of the terms it contains. (Principle of Compostionality)</small>
<br>Q3 for Q2. How should one define the meaning of the terms 'machine' and 'think?'
<br>A3. It is is nonsensical to define the meaning of the terms by how they are commonly used, as in a statistical survey.
<br>P1. Let's replace the question 'Can machines think?' with a game.
<br/><br/>
I think that A3 is debatable. In fact, the current paradigm in machine learning is based on the conjecture that intelligent beings learn new things by statistics. Just like Turing, let's rethink the question 'Can machines think' by defining the meaning of the terms it contains. And unlike Turing who turned to a thought experiment in place of definitions, I will attempt to define the meaning of the words.

# 2. What is a machine?
According to wikipedia, machine is "a physical system using power to apply forces and control movement to perform an action." It is "commonly applied to artificial devices", but can also be applied to "natural biological macromolecules, such as molecular machines."

I will define "machine" as: any device that follows a certain set of rules. 

# 3. What is thinking?
Let's bring back the definitions from the previous article.
<br>According to Oxford Languaes, think means:
    <br>1. have a particular opinion, belief, or idea about someone or something.
        <br>ex. She thought that nothing would be the same again.   
    <br>2. direct one’s mind toward someone or something; use one’s mind actively to form connected ideas.
        <br>ex. He was thinking about Colin.
<br>Wikipedia says that thought is:
    <br>“In their most common sense, the terms thought and thinking refer to **conscious cognitive processes** that can happen independently of sensory stimulation. Their most paradigmatic forms are judging, reasoning, concept formation, problem solving, and deliberation. But other mental processes, like considering an idea, memory, or imagination, are also often included. These processes can happen internally independent of the sensory organs, unlike perception. But when understood in the widest sense, **any mental event** may be understood as a form of thinking, including perception and unconscious mental processes.”
    
We can observe that thought is used as a border term that encompasses opinion, belief, or idea, and that it also entails the concept of consciousness – thought is thought of as “conscious cognitive processes” that is independent of sensory simulation.

I will define "think" as: any cognitive process that follows a certain set of cognitive rules.

# 4. Can machines think?


# References
[I.--Computing Machinery and Intelligence](https://academic.oup.com/mind/article/LIX/236/433/986238)
<br>[Wikipedia: Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine)

<!-- %enddocs -->

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
